feat: Refactor roles and permissions IA DOCS-617 (#2014)
codacy/docs: docs/organizations/roles-and-permissions-for-organizations.md

---
description: List of operations that users can perform on Codacy depending on their role on the Git provider, and how to configure repository management permissions.
---

# Roles and permissions for organizations

By default, Codacy assigns each organization member a role corresponding to that member's role on your Git provider. Each Codacy role, from most restrictive (repository read) to most capable (organization admin), corresponds to a set of permissions that determine what each member can do on Codacy.

To update a member's role on Codacy, update that member's role on your Git provider. When next logging in to Codacy, the member is assigned the new role.

Organization admins can also grant additional permissions:

> -   to roles, by [configuring repository management permissions](#change-analysis-configuration)
> -   to individual members, by [assigning the organization manager role](#managing-the-organization-manager-role)

Reviewer: Not sure what's the correct case to apply here... 🤔  

```suggestion
-   To roles, by [configuring repository management permissions](#change-analysis-configuration)
-   To individual members, by [assigning the organization manager role](#managing-the-organization-manager-role)
```

-   [Ignore issues](../repositories/issues.md#ignoring-and-managing-issues)
-   [Ignore files](../repositories-configure/ignoring-files.md)
-   [Configure code patterns](../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md)
-   [Configure file extensions](../repositories-configure/file-extensions.md)
-   [Manage branches](../repositories-configure/managing-branches.md)
-   [Reanalyze branches and pull requests](../faq/repositories/how-do-i-reanalyze-my-repository.md)

![Configuring repository management permissions](images/roles-permissions-repo-management.png)

## Managing the organization manager role

{% include-markdown "../assets/includes/admin-access-info.md" %}

To grant an organization member additional permissions, you can assign that member the organization manager role. This role isn't influenced by a member's Git provider role.

To review the additional permissions granted by the organization manager role, see the tables for each Git provider ([GitHub](#permissions-for-github), [GitLab](#permissions-for-gitlab), [Bitbucket](#permissions-for-bitbucket)).

> !!! note

Author: 👍  reverting

>     Organization managers can update settings for repositories that they can't access on the Git provider, but they can't access the repositories and only see repository names.

Author: ```suggestion
    Organization managers can access the **Policies** and **Integrations** settings sections of your organization and can therefore impact some repository settings for all repositories of your organization, even repositories that they can't access on the Git provider. However, they can't access the repositories themselves and can only see the repository names.
```

# Roles and permissions for organizations

By default, Codacy assigns each organization member a role corresponding to that member's role on your Git provider. Each Codacy role, from most restrictive (repository read) to most capable (organization admin), corresponds to a set of permissions that determine what each member can do on Codacy.

Organization admins can also grant additional permissions to any organization member by [using the organization manager role](#the-organization-manager-role) and by [configuring who can change the analysis configuration](#change-analysis-configuration).

To update a member's role on Codacy, update that member's role on your Git provider. When next logging in to Codacy, the member is assigned the new role.<!-- TODO is this task rather than intro/concept? --> 

To review the permissions granted by each role, see the tables for each Git provider:

-   [Permissions for GitHub](#permissions-for-github)
-   [Permissions for GitLab](#permissions-for-gitlab)
-   [Permissions for Bitbucket](#permissions-for-bitbucket)

To list and manage the members of your Codacy organization, see the [Managing people](managing-people.md) page.

> ## The organization manager role

Reviewer: Consider moving this section after the **Configuring who can change the analysis configuration**, for consistency with the UI.

### Assigning the organization manager role

To assign the organization manager role:

1.  Open your organization **Settings**, page **Roles and permissions**.

1.  In the **Organization managers** area, use the search field to find the relevant organization member and click the member's name.

    !!! note
        You can only assign the organization manager role to [members of your organization](./managing-people.md#joining).

    ![Security and risk management access management](images/roles-permissions-organization-manager-assign.png)

### Revoking the organization manager role

To revoke the organization manager role:

1.  Open your organization **Settings**, page **Roles and permissions**.

1.  In the **Organization managers** area, scroll the list to find the relevant user.

1.  Click the **Revoke role icon** to the right of the user's name and confirm.

> ## Configuring who can change the analysis configuration {: id="change-analysis-configuration"}

Reviewer: Consider moving this section before the **The organization manager role**, for consistency with the UI.

Also, this title is very different from the UI label, **Repository management permissions**. Should we rename this section to **Configuring repository management permissions**, or similar?
Thoughts? 🤔

By default, only users with the Codacy role **repository write** can change analysis configurations.

To change this, open your organization **Settings**, page **Roles and permissions**, and define the lowest Codacy role required to perform the following operations on the repositories of your organization:

-   [Ignore issues](../repositories/issues.md#ignoring-and-managing-issues)
-   [Ignore files](../repositories-configure/ignoring-files.md)
-   [Configure code patterns](../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md)
-   [Configure file extensions](../repositories-configure/file-extensions.md)
-   [Manage branches](../repositories-configure/managing-branches.md)
-   [Reanalyze branches and pull requests](../faq/repositories/how-do-i-reanalyze-my-repository.md)

![Configuring who can change analysis configurations](images/roles-permissions-repo-management.png)

!!! note
    Codacy determines the role of each organization member from the role of that member on your Git provider:

    -   [GitHub](#permissions-for-github)
    -   [GitLab](#permissions-for-gitlab)
    -   [Bitbucket](#permissions-for-bitbucket)

> ## Permissions for GitHub

Reviewer: At this point, the concept/task content above covers the Codacy **Roles and permissions** screen, it could make sense to separate this content from the three Git provider tables - reference content, which it's long enough to be on its own page.

What do you think of moving the three Git provider (reference) tables to a new page? Something like **Mapping Git provider roles**, or similar? 🤔

Author: As discussed, I'd still keep the entirety of the content on this page; it's still cohesive enough.

Eventually, we may separate once there's more content to add (e.g. billing managers or other new roles in the future).
